Text messaging is the best way to contact Dr. Enmgels. Feel free to text him at 817-676-1031


DONT PLAGURIZE - be careful not to accidentally plagurize

"Be careful not to accidentally plagurize"
DO NOT use figures from other publications. Even if you cite it; you are getting into areas where copyright issues arise.

Final Paper will be public on SMU Data Science review and viewable to anyone for a long time. Take it seriously.

Write a clear engaging story

Remember Reproducible research

"Style" Lessons in Clarity and Grace - good book

Iterate; just get something written down. Iterations will improve our own understanding of our work.

Write in present tense

No opinion words
"We did experiments" is ok but the paper is present tense

Define or Remind reader of important words (i.e linear regression)

Short sentences

Negative results are ok - "this doesn't work because". 

Use tables instead of bullets - all bullets and lists should be tables.

Visualizations should explain a lot. Viewer should get the point without having to read.

Paper Structure:

ABSTRACT
Problem sentence
Motivation Sentence
2=3 what you did to solve the problem
1 sentence main result(singular with a number)
1 sentence main conclusion (singular)

INTRODUCTION
1 Paragraph Motivtion (Sets Genreral problem domain)
1 Paragraph P{roblem Statement (Specific Problem solved by the work)
2-3 paragraphs on solution
1 Paragraph on main results (plural)
1 Paragraph on main conclusions (plural)
1 Paragraph on paper organization

<TUTORIAL MATERIAL>
Paper should be tutorial in nature
Audience is data scientists of varying levels of knowledge. Keep newer students in mind

(DATA SET)
Must have section that defines data
Use tables and figures to illustrate data attributes

<METHODS AND EXPERIMENTS>
Define algorithms, methods and eperiments
DO NOT give play by play of everything we did
Dont put code in paper; if anything put in appendix.
Put versions of software but nop one cares about how to use technology; just state what we did.

RESULTS
Results of experiments
Use tables and graphs
Use tables and graphs
Use tables and graphs
Don't forget explanations

ANALYSIS
Analyze results.
These are NOT conclusions.

ETHICS
Discuss ethics of your problem
You MUST have ethics section.

CONCLUSION (and future work)
Draw conclusionS (plural, more than one conclusion- minimum of 3)
This is NOT a summary section.